Canadian firm Canterra Minerals has finalised the acquisition of four resource staged projects in central Newfoundland, Canada, from NorZinc. The projects acquired include the South Tally Pond / Lemarchant Project, the Tulks South Project, the Victoria Mine, and the Long Lake Project. NorZinc divested the assets to Canterra for $2,237,500, which includes $250,000 in cash and 6,625,000 common Canterra shares at $0.30 apiece. NorZinc CEO Rohan Hazelton said: “The sale of our Newfoundland mineral properties strengthens our balance sheet and allows us to invest further in our flagship asset, Prairie Creek, a high-grade zinc-silver-lead project in the Northwest Territories, Canada.” With the transaction, the total property position of Canterra in the central Newfoundland gold belt is around 352km². Canterra CEO and president Chris Pennimpede said that the four assets will bolster the firm’s mineral rights position in the central Newfoundland corridor while providing further opportunity to make a major discovery in the belt. Pennimpede commented: “As the age-old industry saying goes, ‘the best place to look for deposits/mines is next to deposits/mines’; Canterra will now be positioned next to Marathon’s Valentine Lake Deposits, Teck’s Duck Pond Mine and will have a suite of deposits with significant exploration upside. “With $4.0M in cash, and a 352km² land position covering mineral rights encompassing existing deposits, we expect to be well-positioned to make the next mineral discovery in central Newfoundland.” Located directly north of Canterra’s Wilding Property, the South Tally Pond property comprises the Lemarchant deposit, a VMS deposit within a 700m-wide sequence of altered volcanic rocks. The Tulks South project, which is situated 48km west of the Duck Pond Mill complex, comprises mineral licences and a 76km² mining lease. Covering an area of 40km², the Long Lake project is underlain by the volcanic Tulks Hill Group. It also contains the Long Lake ‘Main Zone’ VMS deposit. The Victoria Mine property comprises a copper mine, which was operated around the turn of the 19th century. Leading the Way in Enterprise Risk Management across Mining Development & Operations and Corporate Functions A Partnership in Technology Leading the Way in Enterprise Risk Management across Mining Development & Operations and Corporate Functions A Partnership in Technology