In this issue, the effects of 2020 on the offshore industry have done little to slow the growth of a In this issue, a new report from the Polar Research and Policy Initiative has urged the development a Five Eyes Critical Minerals Alliance, partnering in and with Greenland to secure Western nations a supply of critical minerals. China is simultaneously looking to establish a footprint in the country, meaning Greenland may become the centre of resource tensions between China and the West. Also, with 10% to 50% of artisanal miners being women, it might come as a surprise that many of them are believed to bring bad luck when present at a mining site in African communities. We speak with three experts to learn more about the workplace challenges many female miners encounter while securing their livelihood. Elsewhere, data from the Responsible Mining Foundation has found that, despite a decade of responsible mining principles, the world’s miners are still struggling to protect employees and ensure human rights are safeguarded. The group has called for a cultural shift to “normalise respect” in the sector, but can such soft policies ever make a difference, and are mining companies ever likely to prioritise social wellbeing over economic interest? Whether you are on a desktop, tablet or smartphone, you can read the magazine for free online, and join the conversation on Twitter.  Out of thin air: tracking underground miners in poor connection areas A new project developed at Nazarbayev University’s Institute for Smart Systems and Artificial Intelligence, Kazakhstan, could improve the safety of miners underground. The new technology is being developed to determine the location of miners based on an algorithm of available Wi-Fi spot signals and inertial measurement unit sensors. Yoana Cholteeva finds out more about the venture. Read more.  How global superpowers can court Greenland in a rare earths tug of war A recent report from the Polar Research and Policy Initiative has urged the development of a critical minerals partnership between the Five Eyes intelligence alliance. Matthew Hall takes a look at the key talking points from the report. Read more.  Man’s world: are women in artisanal mining still a ‘bad omen’? With 10%-50% of artisanal miners around the world being women, it might come as a surprise that many communities believe them to bring bad luck when present at mining sites. Yoana Cholteeva speaks with three experts to learn more about the workplace challenges that many artisanal female miners encounter while securing their livelihood. Read more.  Mapping the rise of resource nationalism in Africa The economic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic, paired with strong commodity prices, has spurred fears of a new wave of resource nationalism as governments look to recover some of the financial losses of 2020. With African nations forming some of the usual suspects for resource nationalism, Matthew Hall looks at who’s at risk and what regulatory changes could be in the works. Read more.  The travails of coal country The coal industry in America has seen a slow, steady decline despite the promises of successive presidents, and the inhabitants of regions such as Appalachia, which are heavily reliant on the sector, have suffered as a result. Yoana Cholteeva asks: how did we get here, and will Biden be any different? Read more.  Human rights and mining wrongs: what do miners still have to do? Data from the Responsible Mining Foundation has found that, despite a decade of responsible mining principles, the world’s miners are still struggling to protect employees and ensure human rights are safeguarded. JP Casey asks: have we reached the limits of the effectiveness of simply raising awareness of these abuses, and why should the world’s miners prioritise such a humanitarian cause? Read more.  Brazil Potash is aiming to reduce Brazil’s reliance on foreign, particularly Canadian, imports of potash to meet its agricultural needs by developing domestic mines. The move could reinforce the Brazilian economy and cut down on the environmental cost of transporting potash across the Americas, and establish the company as a key source of potash in a region that has historically struggled to meet its own demand for the mineral. We investigate. Also in the next issue: President Biden is fighting for a $2tn US infrastructure bill, expected to positively impact global mining commodity markets. We speak with experts to discover the possible outcomes of this decision and its likely reflection on world supply chains. In addition, we ask how $36m of copper blister from a Swiss company got stolen by organised criminals in Turkey before it reached China. Plus, we speak to education consultants New Leaf Technologies to find out about Covid-19’s impact on eLearning, find out what Peru’s presidential election means for the mining industry, and examine how Greenland’s election has shifted mining policy. Optimising Plants through Artificial Intelligence and Advanced Analytics Blasting and Explosive Services for the Mining Industry