NLMK Group has signed a memorandum of intent (MoI) with the Belgorod Region administration and the Russian Ministry of Industry and Trade for a new metals and mining project in the country with an investment of approximately $3.4bn (RUR250bn). The project, which is based on the latest and environmentally friendly technologies, will involve the construction of a new metals and mining facility at the Stoilensky mining and beneficiation plant. It includes the development of several production stages and mastering a new product, hot briquetted iron, for NLMK Group. NLMK Group CEO Grigory Fedorishin said: “Hot briquetted iron is currently in demand both in Russia and on the global market. Using this product in making steel cuts CO₂ emissions in half versus traditional technologies. “The project marks the beginning of NLMK Group’s planning process for its new strategic development stage, Strategy 2030. “High-tech integrated digital production with a low carbon and climate footprint is set to reinforce the company’s competitive advantages.” As part of the project, the existing open-pit mine will also be expanded to increase iron ore output from the existing 43 million tonnes (Mt) to 67Mtpa. New beneficiation capacities are also planned for a total of 10Mt of concentrate. The project will also cover the construction of a pelletising plant with a 9Mt capacity and a 2.5Mt HBI shop. The latest technologies to be employed during construction will ensure a reduction in the environmental impact of production. They include gas purification systems, a closed-loop water system, reuse of waste, conveyor transport in the open-pit mine, among others. The project is set to create up to 1,300 new jobs and its implementation is planned for 2024-2027, with commissioning scheduled for 2027-2028. Specialist Mining Equipment Design and Manufacture Environmental Consultancy Services for the Mining Industry Separation and Beneficiation Systems for Sand, Gravel, Ore, Coal, Lignite and Slag Specialist Mining Equipment Design and Manufacture Environmental Consultancy Services for the Mining Industry Separation and Beneficiation Systems for Sand, Gravel, Ore, Coal, Lignite and Slag