The Government of Greenland has approved the exploitation and closure plan for the Bluejay Mining’s Dundas Ilmenite project in the municipality of Avannaata. The move follows the award of exploitation licence by the government to the project in December 2020, providing rights to the ilmenite resource at the site. It is valid for an initial 30-year period, which can be extended. The latest government-level approval is the final permit required to start construction at the Dundas Ilmenite project. Ilmenite is a titanium-iron oxide mineral, considered from a commercial perspective to be the most important titanium ore. It is the primary source of titanium dioxide, which is used in paints, printing inks, plastics, and more. Bluejay Mining CEO Bo Møller Stensgaard said: “Following the receipt of our approved exploitation licence, we continue to finalise the optimisation planning and engineering sign-off, together with advancing discussions with partners to form a strong project financing syndicate. “The Greenland Government has remained supportive of the Project throughout a recent Parliamentary election and the Covid-19 pandemic, and we look forward to developing our project portfolio in Greenland in the most sustainable way possible while respecting local stakeholders.” The exploitation plan for the project will see the exploitation of the mineral deposit. It also includes aspects of the infrastructure, geology, environment, fiscal, socio-economy, and health and safety. The mine’s closure plan is a technical plan required to implement when operations are finally ceased. It involves the removal of equipment and installations such as buildings and other technical installations. Claimed to be the world’s highest-grade mineral sand ilmenite project, the project is expected to produce approximately 440,000tpa of premium quality ilmenite. Ultrasonic Cleaning Solutions for the Mining Sector Compressed Air Products and Nutrient Treatments Ultrasonic Cleaning Solutions for the Mining Sector Compressed Air Products and Nutrient Treatments