Metso Outotec has secured a contract from Turkey’s Mapa Group to deliver its key grinding technology to the latter’s Liberia and Burkina Faso gold mine expansions. As part of the €19m contract, Metso Outotec will supply identical grinding lines to both mines. The deliveries will comprise Premier ball mills and energy-efficient Vertimill VTM-3000 stirred mills, each line having a 400tph capacity. Metso Outotec has designed its ball mills for long life and minimum maintenance. They are used to grind ores and other materials, typically to 35 mesh or finer in various applications, in open or closed circuits. Vertimill is a vertical grinding mill using gravity-induced technology. Compared with traditional mills, its energy savings can range from 30% to greater than 50%. Mapa Group COO Mustafa Bülent Karaarslan said: “Mapa is a major conglomerate working in various industrial and construction sectors. For us, good support, reliable project execution, and sustainable equipment and process performance are essential. “Alongside the existing good relationship between the companies, they’re the reasons why we selected Metso Outotec for these projects.” The deliveries of Premier and Vertimill mills are expected to take place in January 2022. Metso Outotec Middle East and Turkey Minerals Sales head Mert Katkay said that the company earlier delivered the key crushing, screening and grinding equipment to these two gold mines. Katkay said: “We are excited that Mapa has chosen us to deliver the key equipment for the expansion of these two projects in Liberia and Burkina Faso.” Last October, Metso Outotec secured a contract to deliver two Vertimill VTM-4500 vertical stirred grinding mills to a gold mine in Australia. Conveyor Belt Splicing and Maintenance for Mining Operations Automated Sample Preparation for Mining Analytical Laboratories Earth and Ground Anchor Systems for the Mining Industry Conveyor Belt Splicing and Maintenance for Mining Operations Automated Sample Preparation for Mining Analytical Laboratories Earth and Ground Anchor Systems for the Mining Industry