ALX Resources has received a permit for an exploration programme at its 100%-owned Gibbons Creek uranium project in Saskatchewan, Canada. The Gibbons Creek project comprises seven mineral claims spread over 13,864ha. These claims are located along the northern margin of the Athabasca Basin immediately west of the community of Stony Rapids. Effective until October 2022, the permit also allows for a 5,000m drilling programme in up to 20 holes at the Gibbons Creek project. The scope of work also includes ground-based geophysics, prospecting, and geochemical sampling. Based on prospecting conducted in 2013, ALX confirms the presence of high-grade uranium-bearing boulders ranging up to 4.28% U₃O₈ at the site. In a press statement, ALX Resources said: “Radon surveys in 2015 detected an anomaly approximately 1,200m by 500m in size with peak radon values ranging between 4.00 picocuries per square metre per second (pCi/m²/s) and 10.77pCi/m²/s at ten locations, which are among the highest recorded radon values in the Athabasca Basin.” ALX said it has already studied the geophysical and geochemical data archive from the project’s historical work to find new target areas. To determine the most prospective areas for drilling, the company is planning to undertake a Spatiotemporal Geochemical Hydrocarbons (SGH) soil geochemistry survey over the untested conductors at the property. Developed by Actlabs, the SGH analytical method allows for the identification of subtle geochemical anomalies emanating from a buried source. Following engagement with First Nations and other local communities, the firm plans to commence work at the project site in the third quarter of this year. Wind Fences for Dust Control Portable and Temporary Inflatable Structures for Mining Applications High-Resolution, Accurate 3D Point Clouds for the Mining Industry Wind Fences for Dust Control Portable and Temporary Inflatable Structures for Mining Applications High-Resolution, Accurate 3D Point Clouds for the Mining Industry