Technology firm GroundProbe has introduced Reactive Geohazard Radar (RGR)-Velox, a new advanced doppler radar for reactive geohazard monitoring and alarming. The new military-precision system has been designed to detect, track and alarm moving geohazards in real-time such as tailings dam breaches, large slope failures, landslides, and avalanches. The early warning sign of the solution allows miners to act accordingly to safeguard themselves from potential breach or collapse. GroundProbe CEO David Noon said that the company’s customer-oriented approach to innovation and technology resulted in the development of the RGR-Velox reactive monitoring solution. Noon said: “GroundProbe already has the industry’s broadest range of geotechnical monitoring technologies and services, yet we continually strive to design and develop new solutions to best meet our customers’ needs. “By having our customers actively participate in our product development process, we are able to co-create value and produce the most beneficial solution offering. “At GroundProbe, we aim to keep people, assets and communities safe through better risk management and the RGR-Velox is the ultimate assistant in reactive safety monitoring.” The GroundProbe’s RGR-Velox system is claimed to be the industry’s highest precision, fastest scanning and longest range doppler radar. It features military-grade hardware integrated with GroundProbe’s safety-critical software, alarming and systems. GroundProbe technology vice-president Fernanda Carrea said the RGR-Velox sets the new standard in emergency geohazard monitoring. Carrea added: “The RGR-Velox sweep-scans an entire area instantly, much like taking a radar photograph, to capture actionable information as it happens and provide new details of the scene every 0.25 seconds. “Perhaps most impressive is the device’s ability to differentiate and locate small moving objects with precise accuracy, even when moving at just 0.05 metres per second.” The system allows users to customise the alarming capabilities to meet their specific site challenges and conditions. Last month, a collapse of a makeshift gold mine near Bondo, Lower Uele province, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC),  caused by a landslide killed at least 12 miners.  Real-time Chemical Sensors for Mining and Recycling Equipment Recruitment Services for the Mining Sector Cable and Hose Protection, Wheel Chocks and Warning Whips Real-time Chemical Sensors for Mining and Recycling Equipment Recruitment Services for the Mining Sector Cable and Hose Protection, Wheel Chocks and Warning Whips