Critical Elements Lithium has selected GoldSpot Discoveries to implement machine learning solutions to uncover battery-grade materials at the lithium-tantalum projects within the Nemiscau Belt in Quebec, Canada. GoldSpot will apply its artificial intelligence (AI) exploration technologies and geoscience expertise on Critical Elements’ extensive property package in James Bay, Quebec. Together with Critical Elements’ technical team, GoldSpot will study geoscience data sets to develop and refine Smart Targets at the exploration projects. These prospective projects feature multiple lithium showings, along with nickel, copper and gold. GoldSpot executive chairman and president Denis Laviolette said: “Significant global capital is being invested throughout the electric vehicle supply chain, which will drive demand for high-quality lithium sources. “We are excited to work with the Critical Elements team to capitalise on their existing infrastructure and exploration potential, as well as demonstrate our advanced analytical technology.” Through the ability to take large land packages and distil all available layers of geological information, GoldSpot’s AI approach can identify the most efficient and cost-effective way to explore the prospective ground, noted the firm. Critical Elements CEO Jean-Sébastien Lavallée said: “We are really excited to be able to work with GoldSpot to apply their exclusive technology to generate targets on our projects from geological and geochemical data, as well as more recent geophysical data acquired during our last survey. “Resumption of exploration work on our different projects covering more than 700km² aiming to show the full potential is part of the development plan put in place by our team to become a large and responsible large lithium producer.” GoldSpot expects its Smart Targets and advanced geological modelling to provide accurate results, save time, and reduce costs. World Leading Safety Hand and Body Protection Solutions Innovation, Reliability and Quality Since 1996 Heavy-Duty Tyres for Industrial Vehicles World Leading Safety Hand and Body Protection Solutions Innovation, Reliability and Quality Since 1996 Heavy-Duty Tyres for Industrial Vehicles