Mining company Vale has implemented technology developed by Schneider Electric and information technology company Aveva to unify its Brazilian operations. In order to provide Vale with visibility, Schneider has deployed EcoStruxure Control Expert – Asset Link, which is integrated with the Aveva System Platform and Schneider Modicon M580 automation controller. The technology allows Vale to integrate data directly into the system to offer its managers granular insights and create a master operations centre to remotely manage everything at its Mariana and Itabira complexes in Brazil. Schneider said that the remote management solution allows Vale to have fewer professionals on-site, ultimately enhancing safety and reducing operational costs while improving energy efficiency. Vale senior automation leader Paulo Henrique Fontes Coura said that the firm seeks to improve safety, efficiency and sustainability. Coura added: “Schneider Electric and AVEVA have become an integral part of that journey. Rather than simply offering the software, they provided a complete, bespoke end-to-end service helping us optimise at every turn. This included training, support, and advice throughout.” Aveva global strategic partners vice-president Marc Ramsay said: “Together with Schneider Electric EcoStruxure, the AVEVA System Platform supports Vale in realising the mines of the future through contextualised operations built on a collaborative, standards-based foundation that unifies people, processes, and assets across all of Vale’s facilities for continuous operational improvement and real-time decision assistance.” Earlier this year, Vale divested its stake in Vale New Caledonia (VNC), which operates the Goro nickel mine and a processing plant in New Caledonia, to the Prony Resources New Caledonia consortium. The Laddertube Escapeway System for Underground Mines Anti-Corrosion Protection Solutions for Steel Wire Ropes The Laddertube Escapeway System for Underground Mines Anti-Corrosion Protection Solutions for Steel Wire Ropes