The BHP Mitsubishi Alliance (BMA) joint venture (JV) has deployed Miller Technology’s light-duty battery electric vehicle (EV) and Tritium’s fast-charging units at its coal mine in Queensland, Australia, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The deployment forms part of BHP’s commitment to achieving net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. Comprising BHP and Japan’s Mitsubishi, BMA has deployed Miller Technology’s new electric vehicle, the Relay, for the Bowen Basin coal mine in Queensland. The Relay gets fully charged in as little as 20 minutes for a typical mining shift of ten hours and can carry a payload of two tonnes. The vehicle can add an additional runtime of up to two hours through regenerative braking technology. Miller Technology lead battery electric vehicle engineer Paul Summers said: “Relay’s technology creates a game-changing vehicle with its unique battery management system and cooling and temperature monitoring capabilities. As a result, the Relay is the most environmentally friendly, safe and efficient light-duty mining vehicle of its kind available today. “We’re proud to have provided BMA with the industry’s most advanced solution for sustainable mining in partnership with Tritium and its market-leading fast charging technology.” BMA also received Tritium’s new RT175-S fast charger with 175kW output capacity. The charger is capable of providing an EV with a 171km range in as little as ten minutes. Furthermore, the charger is liquid-cooled and comes with a sealed and IP65-rated enclosure, which safeguards the power electronics against dust and dirt at mines. Tritium is claimed to have made modifications to the RT175-S charger to comply with the Australian mining standards. Tritium CEO Jane Hunter said: “As the only liquid-cooled, IP65-rated EV charging technology provider, Tritium is uniquely positioned to support the mining industry’s transition to electric vehicles through innovative charging technology that is sealed to protect against sediment, dust and moisture, and rated to operate in harsh conditions. “Tritium’s chargers have been operating in the field since 2013 across an array of conditions from the Nordics to Australia.” Hearing Protection Specialists of Custom-Made Ear Plugs Filter Presses and Water Treatment Solutions for Mining Applications Hydraulic Systems and Components for Mining and Drilling Machinery Hearing Protection Specialists of Custom-Made Ear Plugs Filter Presses and Water Treatment Solutions for Mining Applications Hydraulic Systems and Components for Mining and Drilling Machinery