The lithium mining sector has seen a proliferation of activity in the last 10 years. It has documented record revenues as lithium becomes more sought after due to its centrality in electric vehicle battery technology. We list the five biggest lithium producers by market cap, along with an overview of their current projects and main areas of business.  Jiangxi Ganfeng is the largest lithium metal producer in the world, while its lithium compound capacity ranks third worldwide and first in China. The firm holds lithium resources across Australia, Argentina, and Mexico and has over 4,844 employees. It reported a revenue of 2020 $839.26 m in 2020, almost double the $432.11 m it reported in 2016.  Major projects: The company has invested in the equity of Bacanora Lithium PLC and acquired a 22.5% project interest in Sonora Lithium, a lithium clay project based in Sonora, Mexico. In addition, it has signed a strategic cooperation memorandum with VW to supply lithium chemical products to VW and its suppliers over the next decade. Signed a long-term supply agreement with BMW.  Major projects: The company owns lithium brine operations in Clayton Valley, near Silver Peak, US and the Salar de Atacama, Chile. It owns a 49% stake in the massive, hard-rock Greenbushes mine.  Major projects: Tianqi paid $209.6m for a 2.1 percent stake in SQM in September 2016, which it then boosted to 23.77%, for $4.07bn, in 2018.The company has also developed a lithium hydroxide plant in the Kwinana Industrial Area, located south of Perth in Western Australia.  Major projects: The company produces lithium carbonate in its Salar del Carmen plant, close to Antofagasta, Chile. It uses the lithium carbonate from the plant to produce lithium hydroxide, which is used in batteries and colorants. In 2016, SQM and Lithium Americas announced they would develop the Cauchari-Olaroz lithium project in Argentina via a joint venture. Outside of South America, SQM is developing the Mount Holland lithium project in Australia, which is known as one of the world’s largest hard-rock mining deposits, in a joint venture with Wesfarmers.  Major projects: The company owns 100% of the world’s largest, independent hard-rock lithium operation, located in Western Australia’s resource-rich Pilbara region. The Pilgangoora Lithium-Tantalum Project in Western Australia has attracted a consortium of high quality, global partners including Ganfeng Lithium, General Lithium, Great Wall Motor Company, POSCO, CATL, and Yibin Tianyi.  Conveyor Belt Maintenance, Wear and Corrosion Protection Catalytic Water Filtration Systems Mine Maintenance Management Software Conveyor Belt Maintenance, Wear and Corrosion Protection Catalytic Water Filtration Systems Mine Maintenance Management Software