Asset manager BlackRock joins plans with other financial institutions, including Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, and the Asian Development Bank, to hasten the closure of coal-fired power stations throughout Asia. The plan aims to support the eventual phasing out of coal-powered stations. The initiative has evolved due to investor pressure on commercial and development banks to cease the financing of new and existing power plants in order to meet key climate targets. Donald Kanak, chairman of Prudential Insurance Growth Markets, who came up with the idea, told Reuters: “If you can come up with an orderly way to replace those plants sooner and retire them sooner, but not overnight, that opens up a more predictable, massively bigger space for renewables”. BlackRock has placed sustainability as central to its agenda over the past five years, believing that sustainability will act as a new standard for investing. This announcement is indicative of this move, with the proposals, led by the Asian Development Bank and Prudential, involving the purchase of coal plants throughout developing economies within Asia and operating them for as long as 15 years before closing ahead of schedule. In doing so, the asset managers will be able to run the power plants at a lower cost of capital, generating similar returns to commercial operators over a shorter period, facilitating the plants’ closure at an earlier date. Disinvestment from coal-powered energy is critical in reducing carbon emissions. This is particularly evident within Asia, where many countries are still relying on coal as their principal energy source. Coal remains a cornerstone of electricity generation in China, India and other Asian nations, accounting for around 75% of global coal demand. “The world cannot possibly hit the Paris climate targets unless we accelerate the retirement and replacement of existing coal-fired electricity,” Kanak said in a statement. “This is especially true in Asia, where existing coal fleets are big and young and will otherwise operate for decades.” Funding for this transition is expected to come from both public and private sources. But for the plan to be successful, it will rely on countries committing to not replacing coal use with other sources of carbon-intensive fossil fuels. The plan aims to permit developing states such as Vietnam, Indonesia, and the Philippines to make ground on achieving key climate goals in the near future, “not deferring the heavy lifting until mid-century”, said Kanak. The move looks to be part of a greater initiative by commercial and development banks to fund a green transition, moving away from high emitting sources, freeing the space for an upscaling of renewable energy sources. Training personnel to use machinery such shotcrete sprayers can be tricky. Ultimately, we need to find a way to provide efficient, realistic training without putting people in danger or risking damage to expensive machinery. Normet offers the solutions with its virtual reality sprayed concrete training. This advanced software does more than mimic the application, it calculates everything that comes through the nozzle, with real adjustable properties and behaviour of sprayed concrete mix. This whitepaper explains how this impressive technology works and how you can utilise it to get your workers ready for the field. Enter your details here to receive your free whitepaper. By clicking the “Submit” button above, you accept 
                                                                             and acknowledge that your data will be used 
                                                                                 as described in the Normet Privacy Policy.
                                                                                
We will also collect and use the information you provide for carefully considered and specific purposes, where we believe we have a legitimate interest in doing so, for example to send you communications about similar products and services we offer. We will always give you an option to opt out of any future communications from us. You can find out more about our legitimate interest activity in our privacy policy here. ‘We’ includes Verdict Media Limited and other GlobalData brands as detailed here. Material Analysis and Forensic Services for Mining Applications Recruitment Services for the Mining Sector Wireless Radio and Video Surveillance Solutions for the Mining Sector Material Analysis and Forensic Services for Mining Applications Recruitment Services for the Mining Sector Wireless Radio and Video Surveillance Solutions for the Mining Sector