Canada-based Osino Resources has submitted an application for a mining licence at Twin Hills Gold Project in Namibia. The gold exploration and development company filed the application with Namibia’s Ministry of Mines and Energy, following the completion of the project’s preliminary economic assessment (PEA) earlier this month. The Twin Hills Gold Project forms part of the Canadian firm’s Karibib Gold Project, which comprises 12 contiguous licences to the north-east of Karibib. Osino president and CEO Heye Daun said: “Applying for a mining licence is a major step forward in the de-risking and advancement of the Twin Hills gold project towards construction and gold production. “It is the most significant component amongst a variety of other permitting activities and clearance certificates required under Namibia’s minerals and environmental legislation. Osino plans to conclude all these steps over the next 12 months.” Osino seeks the mining licence for a term of 20 years, covering an area of 6,229.7ha. As a pre-requisite for the mining licence application to be granted, the firm has to complete an environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA), and an environmental management plan (EMP). It also requires a mine closure plan and environmental clearance certificates for several activities listed under Namibia’s mining and environmental regulations. Osino expects to complete all the permitting requirements for the mining licence application process over the next 12 months. Namibian specialist environmental consulting firm Environmental Clearance Consultants CC (ECC) has been selected to manage the ESIA process for the project. ECC will also assist the firm in concluding the project’s other licensing and environmental clearance requirements. Heavy-Duty Lowboy and Haul Truck Recovery Solutions for the Mining Sector Containers and Mobile Space Systems Grinding Mills for Ores and Minerals Heavy-Duty Lowboy and Haul Truck Recovery Solutions for the Mining Sector Containers and Mobile Space Systems Grinding Mills for Ores and Minerals