Swiss automation firm ABB has introduced ABB Ability eMine, a new portfolio of electrification and digital systems to accelerate decarbonisation in the mining sector. The zero-carbon mine offering has the capacity to electrify mining equipment across hauling, hoisting, grinding and material handling, from mine to port. Integrated with digital applications and services to monitor and optimise energy usage, the solution suite will include the fully automated ABB Ability eMine FastCharge system from next year. Currently in the pilot phase, the ABB Ability eMine FastCharge system is designed to provide high-power electric charging for haul trucks. Designed for adverse environments, eMine FastCharge allows for installation anywhere and can charge any electric truck without human intervention at up to 600kW. ABB said in a statement: “Charging time will depend on the battery capacity on board the haul truck and the operational profile, however in many instances a suitable state of charge could be reached within 15 minutes.” Also included in the new portfolio is the ABB Ability eMine Trolley System, which can cut diesel consumption by up to 90%. This subsequently helps to reduce environmental impact and energy costs. ABB Mining global head Max Luedtke said: “The global mining industry is undergoing one of the most significant and important transformations of our generation – and that is to become zero-carbon. “ABB Ability eMine is an exciting milestone to help convert existing mining operations from fossil fuel energy to all-electric. Mines can become even more energy efficient with vastly reduced levels of CO₂ emissions, while at the same time staying competitive and ensuring high productivity.” Auctions and Valuations for the Resources and Mining Sectors High-Performance LED Strip Lighting for Adverse Mining Environments Equipment and Transport Services for the Mining Industry Auctions and Valuations for the Resources and Mining Sectors High-Performance LED Strip Lighting for Adverse Mining Environments Equipment and Transport Services for the Mining Industry