ABB has partnered with Liebherr Mining Equipment to develop solutions for the overall electrification of mining operations, thereby accelerating the transition to all-electric mines. According to the memorandum of understanding (MoU), the two technology firms will explore the development of equipment and digital solutions for the electrification of mine sites. The work would focus on haul truck trolley support, which is said to be one of the most effective ways to reduce emissions. Liebherr offers a Trolley Assist System for its haul truck range. The solutions to be developed by the two firms are expected to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with heavy mining machinery. Liebherr Mining Equipment managing director Peter Hoeher said: “The ABB team is covering a very large footprint in the surface mining industry with a strong reputation in the supply of electrical infrastructure solutions. “Trolley applications will be the key technology to reduce the overall GHG emissions from surface mining operations in the fastest way possible while maintaining all the benefits of haul trucks in terms of performance, cost, and operational flexibility.” Furthermore, the parties will address the demands of remote industrial applications. ABB electrification and composite plant global product line manager Mehrzad Ashnagaran said: “Building from our trolley assist infrastructure, which can reduce GHG emissions greatly, we can be part of wider electrification plans and help set bold targets for the near-term future.” ABB recently signed an MoU with MEDATech, a Canadian engineering consultancy, to jointly explore solutions related to the decarbonisation of heavy machinery in mining operations. Bulk-Powder Material Handling and Storage Silos Compressed Air Products and Nutrient Treatments Air-Conditioning Units and Battery Coolers Chiller for Electrical Vehicles Bulk-Powder Material Handling and Storage Silos Compressed Air Products and Nutrient Treatments Air-Conditioning Units and Battery Coolers Chiller for Electrical Vehicles