Canada-based engineering firm Stantec has signed a letter of intent to purchase Engenium, an Australian mining project delivery and advisory services firm. Established in 2003, Engenium assists Australian mining, resources, and industrial infrastructure clients to deliver their projects, from concept through production. The company recently helped undisclosed partners in developing battery minerals projects. Stantec president and CEO Gord Johnston said: “Engenium and Stantec share a passion for applying sustainable best practices to projects across the globe. “It’s exciting to welcome Engenium to our team as we look to add depth and expertise to our existing mining business in Australia and beyond. “Engenium’s experience in mine development, mineral processing, and renewable energy operations builds on our track record of sustainable project delivery and support of energy transition.” Engenium has multi-year framework agreements with several major mining houses in Australia. It is also involved in both brownfield and new greenfield project developments. The firm also recently helped undisclosed large-scale mining companies in their transition to green energy operations. Some of the important projects in Engenium’s portfolio include the Goldfields solar projects, the Chichester solar/gas hybrid energy project, the Pilgangoora lithium project, and the Mardie salt and potash project. GlobalData's TMT Themes 2021 Report tells you everything you need to know about disruptive tech themes and which companies are best placed to help you digitally transform your business. Engenium managing director Wayne Peel said: “Joining Stantec enhances our ability to service larger projects, with the depth of a global firm that operates on all seven continents. “Stantec’s values align with our commitment to sustainability leadership, and to putting people first. We are thrilled to join their global community.” The latest move follows Stantec’s recent acquisition of Australian transportation planning and engineering company GTA Consultants. Milled and Atomised Dense-Media Ferrosilicon Intelligent Mine Management Solutions Blast Optimisation Services for the Mining Industry