QMC Quantum Minerals has secured a permit for the 2021 work programme for its 100% owned Irgon Lithium Mine Project in Manitoba, Canada. The project comprises the former Irgon Mine and several other known spodumene-bearing pegmatite dikes. Planned to begin in near future, the work programme involves the stripping of overburden, prospecting, and surface and channel sampling, in addition to obtaining a bulk sample. As part of the work programme, the firm will focus on extending known mineralisation along strike of all currently identified dikes, as well as on the two parallel structures identified in SGS’s 2020 mobile metal ion orientation. QMC Quantum Minerals will also prepare areas within its claims for additional MMI sampling surveys. Additionally, the company will assess potential strike extensions of the five significant spodumene and rare metal-bearing that were identified at the property. QMC Quantum CEO Minerals Balraj Mann said: “With the recent announcement of US President Joe Biden’s proposal for $1.9tn in stimulus spending, of which $174bn is earmarked for investment in the electric vehicle (EV) market, QMC is situated to be an important part of the EV supply chain. “Not only will we have lithium (extracted from the Irgon Lithium Mine Project) for batteries, our Namew Lake District project can potentially supply copper-nickel for the proposed network of 500,000 EV charging stations across the United States.” Between 1953 and 1954, a total of 25 holes were drilled by Lithium Corporation of Canada into the Irgon Dike. GlobalData's TMT Themes 2021 Report tells you everything you need to know about disruptive tech themes and which companies are best placed to help you digitally transform your business. Based on this, the firm estimated historical lithium mineral resource at 1.2Mt grading 1.51% Li₂20 over a strike length of 365m and to a depth of 213m. Milled and Atomised Dense-Media Ferrosilicon Intelligent Mine Management Solutions Blast Optimisation Services for the Mining Industry