Strandline Resources has awarded a $104.7m (A$135m) contract to NRW Holdings Group to build the processing facilities for the Coburn mineral sands project in Western Australia. Under the contract, NRW’s subsidiary Primero Group will be responsible for engineering, procurement, construction, commissioning and performance testing of the wet concentrate plant (WCP) and the minerals separation plant (MSP), as well as associated processing circuits. The Coburn WCP will be equipped to beneficiate heavy minerals and reject the non-valuable, lighter minerals. This will be done through various stages of high-capacity gravity separation and classification. The relocatable WCP infrastructure is planned to be moved several times as the mine advances along the orebody, during the mine’s operational life. The MSP will be capable of recovering a range of premium-quality final products, including chloride ilmenite, rutile, premium zircon and zircon concentrate. The contract follows the completion of the funding required for the Coburn project development, successful early contractor involvement and front-end engineering design (FEED) process. Primero CEO Cameron Henry said: “We are pleased to convert another Early Contractor Involvement (ECI) engagement and preferred contractor status to full contract award and associated delivery. “The Strandline project is another step forward for the minerals division within Primero and our new owners NRW Holdings, that underpins our growing pipeline of works through 2022/2023.” NRW subsidiary Primero will work with Downer Group subsidiary Mineral Technologies, under a subcontract arrangement, to deliver the project. The project is planned to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2022. It is expected to create approximately 180 construction jobs. The $199.4m (A$257m) Coburn mineral sands project is estimated to have ore reserves of 523 million tonnes and an operational life of 22.5 years. It is expected to produce up to 34,000tpa of premium zircon, 54,000tpa of zircon Concentrate, 110,000tpa of ilmenite, and 24,000tpa of rutile. Material Analysis and Forensic Services for Mining Applications Compressed Air Products and Nutrient Treatments World Leading Safety Hand and Body Protection Solutions Material Analysis and Forensic Services for Mining Applications Compressed Air Products and Nutrient Treatments World Leading Safety Hand and Body Protection Solutions