US-based transportation solutions provider Wabtec has completed testing its Collision Awareness System (CAS) Vehicle Intervention Solution with Komatsu haul trucks. According to the company, the Wabtec CAS solution passed all key performance criteria when it was integrated with the Komatsu Machine Intervention Controller (MIC). The solution was able to decrease the speed of a haul truck under a controlled deacceleration strategy, a capability that can help in increasing safety in the mining industry. In a statement, Wabtec said: “This is the first time a Wabtec mining solution has been validated at Level 9 of the Earth Moving Equipment Safety Round Table (EMESRT) Defensive Controls Model for a major Original Equipment Manufacturer.” The company used Komatsu 730E and 860E haul trucks operating at speeds of up to 30km/h for testing. Wabtec vice-president and Digital Mine general manager Henro Van Wyk said: “This initiative proves the broader communication capabilities of our GPS integration solution, which helps to optimise brake functions and mobility dynamics of a large rigid body haul truck. “We will now be able to expand our testing for various interaction scenarios and dynamic decelerations that are required to ensure that the intervention solution performs optimally, positioning Wabtec as the global leader in vehicle interaction system solutions.” The Wabtec Level 7/8 CAS solution is currently available and used at multiple mining projects. Headquartered in Japan, Komatsu offers mining equipment, technology and automated solutions. In August, Rio Tinto, BHP and other companies partnered with Komatsu to develop zero-emission mining equipment and infrastructure. World Leading Safety Hand and Body Protection Solutions Crushing, Grinding and Hydrometallurgy Specialists Energy-Efficient Compressors, Light Towers, Generators and Pumps World Leading Safety Hand and Body Protection Solutions Crushing, Grinding and Hydrometallurgy Specialists Energy-Efficient Compressors, Light Towers, Generators and Pumps