Brazilian-focused mining company Serabi Gold has said that the current development plans of the Coringa project are unaffected despite a recent court ruling that temporarily suspended the issuance of future licences for the project. After consulting legal advisers, the company said that the suspension does not impact development work and it is being continued. It also expects that the ruling will not affect the current expected timeline for the award of the installation licence for the project. The Coringa project is located in Pará, Brazil, around 200km south of Serabi’s current gold operation at Palito. The mine is operated by Chapleau Exploração Mineral (Chapleau), a wholly owned subsidiary of the company. A public lawsuit was originally filed in September 2017 by the Federal Prosecutor’s Office (MPF) against Chapleau seeking to nullify the operating licence granted by the state environmental agency (SEMAS). However, the court refused to take any action against the SEMAS and the National Mining Agency (ANM), as well as prevented Chapleau from filing subsequent appeals. This decision enabled Chapleau to advance with Coringa development. Another court decision denied all MPF requests in November 2020, following which, MPF filed a further appeal. The reporting judge of the appeal recently ordered ANM and SEMAS to refrain from granting Chapleau any future licences or titles related to the Coringa project. The suspension will be effective until it is proven that the project is not detrimental to the interests of the indigenous tribes, or until they are consulted. In a statement, Serabi Gold said: “The company advises that it has, since acquiring Coringa in December 2017, been in regular dialogue with and secured support for the project from FUNAI, the national agency established for managing the interest of indigenous people, and that the indigenous populations were present and spoke at the Public Hearing regarding Coringa held on 6 February 2020. “In addition, the company advises that it is already in the process of preparing a consultation and impact report for SEMAS regarding the indigenous communities that are located in the regions around the project.” The company is also working on filing necessary legal papers to seek a reconsideration of the ruling. Conveyor Equipment for the Mining Industry Increasing Uptime and Reducing Costs for Mine and Quarry Operations Mixing and Drying Technologies for Mining Applications Conveyor Equipment for the Mining Industry Increasing Uptime and Reducing Costs for Mine and Quarry Operations Mixing and Drying Technologies for Mining Applications