Anglo American is in preliminary discussions with Brazilian mining firm Vale for the potential joint development of mineral resources of Serpentina iron ore project in Brazil. The Serpentina Project is situated in the municipalities of Santo Antônio do Rio Abaixo, Conceição do Mato Dentro, and Morro do Pilar, in Minas Gerais state. This Vale project comprises mining rights that are contiguous to Anglo American’s Minas-Rio ore project. Discussions are currently in the initial stage and there could be no certainty on reaching an agreement, the companies stated. A potential partnership could see Vale leverage Minas-Rio project’s processing and logistics infrastructure, reported Reuters. The Minas-Rio project includes a mine, a pipeline and a port in Rio de Janeiro state. Vale stated it constantly assesses alternatives and strategic partnerships to generate value for its shareholders. Recently, it was reported that Vale was eyeing to buy a stake of 30-40% in Minas-Rio iron ore project from Anglo American. The Brazilian miner may even explore operatorship stake in the project, reported Bloomberg, citing people familiar with the matter. However, Vale had stated that there is ‘no decision, agreement or commitment in this regard’ to the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários, which had sought a clarification on this news. The Minas-Rio fully integrated export iron ore project, which is 100% owned by Anglo American’s subsidiary Iron Ore Brazil, has 26.5 million tonnes a year production capacity. Vale aims to boost its annual iron ore production capacity to 400 million tonnes while strengthening its position as a top premium iron ore supplier. Last week Vale Exploration Canada had signed a two-year generative alliance with Mundoro Capital to explore for copper projects in Arizona and New Mexico, US. Blasting and Explosive Services for the Mining Industry Cable and Hose Protection, Wheel Chocks and Warning Whips Radar for Mining Applications Blasting and Explosive Services for the Mining Industry Cable and Hose Protection, Wheel Chocks and Warning Whips Radar for Mining Applications