British eco-technology company Cornish Lithium has collaborated with Australian firm Source Certain International (SCI) to identify the origin of UK-mined lithium in lithium-ion batteries. SCI’s trust mark technology is designed to trace the origin of lithium within a battery, down to the specific Cornish Lithium-operated mine site. The project is expected to support the UK’s supply strategies related to critical minerals, including cobalt and lithium, which are needed for technologies such as electric vehicles. In a press statement, the Australian Trade and Investment Commission (Austrade) said: “Cornish Lithium and SCI are hopeful their work will form a foundation for developing a transparent and accountable lithium supply chain for batteries in the UK.” Austrade calls the development of the new lithium trust mark technology ‘timely’ as the demand for lithium compounds used in lithium-ion batteries is anticipated to grow with the increase in electric vehicle production. Cornish Lithium and a consortium of companies are currently working to enable the production of commercially viable battery-grade lithium in Europe. The aim of the Securing Domestic Lithium Supply Chain for UK (Li4UK) consortium is to highlight the feasibility of producing battery-quality lithium compounds from lithium found in UK rocks, as well as geothermal waters. In the next stage, SCI intends to establish a reference database of all Cornwall-sourced lithium by applying its scientific provenance verification technology, TSW Trace. The samples in the database would be cross-referenced against lithium in the battery supply chain to verify its UK origin. Austrade said in a statement: “SCI is confident its technology will provide the appropriate level of precision to verify the origin and authenticity of lithium mined by Cornish Lithium. “This will, in turn, meet the demands of consumers who are increasingly interested in where items and their components come from, and the impact of their purchase on people and the environment.” Last year, Cornish Lithium said that it discovered ‘globally significant’ lithium grades in deep geothermal waters at the United Downs Deep Geothermal Power Project near Redruth, Cornwall. Ultrasonic Cleaning Solutions for the Mining Sector Intelligent Mine Management Solutions Bearings and Units, Seals, Lubrication Systems, Remanufacturing Ultrasonic Cleaning Solutions for the Mining Sector Intelligent Mine Management Solutions Bearings and Units, Seals, Lubrication Systems, Remanufacturing