Amax has secured a five-year contract worth $347.5m (A$470m) to provide mining services for the AngloGold Ashanti’s Iduapriem gold mine in western Ghana. Amax is a 60:40 joint venture between Perenti Global’s African Mining Services (AMS) and MAXMASS, a Ghana-based mining services company. The JV will commence work at the site immediately, with the contract expected to create around 475 jobs. Perenti will earn $207m (A$280m) over the contract. Perenti Mining CEO Paul Muller said that the company has provided surface mining services at the Iduapriem gold mine since 2012, establishing a partnership with AngloGold Ashanti. Muller said: “We look forward to continuing to strengthen this partnership and also welcome the opportunity to work with our newest joint venture partner, MAXMASS. “Under this contract, and through the AMAX joint venture, we expect to continue to support the many local businesses that have become important suppliers contractors to our operations under previous contracts.” Located in western Ghana, near the town of Tarkwa, the Iduapriem multiple open-pit operation comprises two circuits each comprising two-stage milling. Bordered to the north by Gold Fields Ghana’s Tarkwa Mine, the Iduapriem mine had produced 275Koz of gold in 2019. Earlier this year, Perenti Global unit African Underground Mining Services (AUMS) secured a $179m contract to continue providing operations at the AngloGold Ashanti’s Geita gold mine in Tanzania. The contract includes the addition of an underground mine at Geita Hill, a new underground development within the Geita Complex. The Geita Mine was originally an open-pit mine and transitioned to an underground operation in 2016. Slurry, Process and Froth Pumps for Mining and Minerals Processing Compressed Air Products and Nutrient Treatments Conveyors for Material Handling Tasks in Mining Operations Slurry, Process and Froth Pumps for Mining and Minerals Processing Compressed Air Products and Nutrient Treatments Conveyors for Material Handling Tasks in Mining Operations