Walkabout Resources has awarded contracts to Tanzanian engineering firm TNR to provide bulk earthworks and civil engineering services for the Lindi Jumbo graphite project. The  $5.6m bulk earthworks contract includes the completion of site preparation for the processing plant, as well as general infrastructure. It also covers the tailings storage facility (TSF), including topsoil loading and stockpiling, bulk excavation and roadbed. The scope of the $3.1m civils contract includes all earthworks, concrete works and building work for the Lindi Jumbo processing plant and associated infrastructure. TNR plans to commence formal mobilisation activities this month and will undertake civil works in compliance with the design specifications by Jinpeng Engineering. Walkabout Resources CEO Andrew Cunningham said: “We have one of the highest grade, undeveloped natural flake graphite projects globally, and as we move through satisfying the required conditions precedent required to release the CRDB debt funding, we remain excited at the imminent escalation of activity on-site in Tanzania and in China. “The company’s longstanding working relationship with TNR Engineering will enable a smooth transition towards becoming a mine developer and producer.” The Lindi Jumbo Graphite Project is located in south-eastern Tanzania, approximately 200km from the port of Mtwara. Walkabout Resources owns 100% of mining licence M579/2018, formerly part of prospecting licence PL9992/2014, which hosts the Lindi Jumbo deposit. The company also holds 70% of PL9993/2014. The licences are situated within the highly prospective Mozambique belt, which hosts some of the world’s highest grade, coarse flake graphite deposits. Over a 24-year mine life, the Lindi Jumbo project is anticipated to produce 40,000tpa of graphite concentrate. Engineering and Consultancy Services for Underground Mines Aerial Land Management Solutions for the Mining Industry Engineering and Consultancy Services for Underground Mines Aerial Land Management Solutions for the Mining Industry