Musk Metals has started a Phase II exploration programme on its 100%-owned Elon Lithium project in Quebec, Canada. The Elon Lithium project is strategically located approximately 600m north-east of the past-producing Lithium Amérique du Nord project. From 1955 to 1965, Lithium Amérique du Nord project produced more than 907,000t of material, at 1.40% Li₂O. In Phase II, the firm plans to focus on the interpreted intrusion, the interpreted magnetic structures, and the interpreted mafic units, identified by the airborne survey in Phase I. The scope of work includes geological mapping, trenching, and sampling with a planned Phase III exploration programme. The Phase III programme will include diamond drilling and metallurgical testing of targets identified in the first two exploration phases. Musk Metals CEO and director Nader Vatanchi said: “We are excited to be underway with our first comprehensive phase of exploration on the Elon Lithium property. Sampling and mapping will test and further define multiple recently discovered magnetic anomalies and pegmatite intrusions/dykes on the property. “Musk Metals is planning multiple 2021 work programmes on both of our highly prospective lithium projects that are situated in active lithium camps with lithium mineralisation and showings in close proximity.” The first exploration phase involved a high-resolution heliborne magnetic survey that helped in identifying multiple magnetic anomalies at the property in preliminary data, the company said. The firm is currently undertaking fieldwork to further define these anomalies. In April 2021, Musk Metals agreed to acquire the entire stake in the Pakeagama Lithium claims in Canada. The property is situated 3km south of the SPARK and PAK lithium deposits. Effective Solutions Reducing Likelihood to Everyday Mining Hazards and Breaches High-Performance LED Strip Lighting for Adverse Mining Environments Effective Solutions Reducing Likelihood to Everyday Mining Hazards and Breaches High-Performance LED Strip Lighting for Adverse Mining Environments