The deal will merge fatigue monitoring capability to the safety solution portfolio of Wenco. The SmartCap device evaluates fatigue levels in real-time and screens for oncoming microsleeps that can cause safety hazards. More than 5,000 consumers in mining, trucking, and various sectors are using the device. Wenco noted that the SmartCap improves the workers’ ability to stay safe. SmartCap CEO Tim Ekert said: “This purchase is an important step for the continued growth of the SmartCap fatigue technology. We have made significant progress these past eight years and we are proud of every safety incident our technology has prevented. “We believe joining Wenco will enable us to grow even further and increase the safety of even more industrial operations.” Lately, Wenco and its parent company Hitachi Construction Machinery (HCM, have concentrated on solutions for simplifying and enhancing end-to-end mining venture, with safety as the primary concern. SmartCap is expected to add a fatigue analysis layer for operator protection to the digital mining drive. It may be incorporated under HCM’s Solution Linkage family, the ICT/IoT solution platform for worldwide mining and construction clients made in response to high demands for enhanced safety, lifecycle cost, and output. Wenco president and CEO Andrew Pyne said: “Wenco has long been observing SmartCap’s success in enhancing safety for their customers, and we have been in regular discussion on how we can integrate our technologies to provide a comprehensive, next-generation safety solution. “Ultimately, it was decided that bringing our technology, personnel, and business relationships together under Wenco offered the greatest opportunity for us to deliver on our mutual vision for mine safety.” Material Analysis and Forensic Services for Mining Applications Compressed Air Products and Nutrient Treatments World Leading Safety Hand and Body Protection Solutions Material Analysis and Forensic Services for Mining Applications Compressed Air Products and Nutrient Treatments World Leading Safety Hand and Body Protection Solutions