The Colombian Mining Association (CMA) has announced the adoption of the Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM), a performance system developed by the Mining Association of Canada (MAC) that improves environmental and social practices in the mining sector. Announced at the closing of Colombia’s National Mining Congress last week, ACM and its affiliated companies in the country will adopt a set of indicators that will allow them to measure and publicly report on the quality of its management systems. The ACM joins eight other mining associations in adopting the standard. It becomes the third association in South America to adopt the standard, joining the Brazilian and Argentinian mining associations. “To meet the global demand for minerals and metals that we need to build the greener world we dream of, today the Colombian mining industry takes another big step in terms of sustainability. We have been pioneers in good practices worldwide. This standard will allow companies to measure and demonstrate their positive impact models in social and environmental matters,” said Juan Camilo Nariño, president of the CMA. With the support of MAC, the CMA will tailor TSM’s performance areas to reflect the unique aspects of its mining industry, committing to implementation in the next five years. TSM is a globally recognized sustainability program that supports mining companies in managing critical environmental and social risks. It is the first mining sustainability standard globally to require site-level assessments and is mandatory for all companies that are members of implementing associations. Through TSM, eight critical social and environmental performance aspects are evaluated, independently validated, and publicly reported against 30 distinct performance indicators. The indicators include climate change, tailings management, water stewardship, Indigenous and community relationships, safety and health, biodiversity conservation, crisis management, and preventing child and forced labour. “The past five years have witnessed TSM’s adoption by other mining associations around the world, and the program is now in the process of being implemented in Norway, Finland, Spain, Botswana, Brazil, Argentina, the Philippines, and Australia, allowing us to say that TSM is a truly global standard,” said Pierre Gratton, MAC’s president and CEO.  Your Solution for Slurry and Non-Slurry Centrifugal Pumps Digital Fleet Management Platform for the Mining Industry Surface Protection Materials and Plastics Engineering Services Your Solution for Slurry and Non-Slurry Centrifugal Pumps Digital Fleet Management Platform for the Mining Industry Surface Protection Materials and Plastics Engineering Services